94 Excerpta Brevia

§.vex-sue, -ε, -um, adj. turned
away from.

averto, -ere‚ -u, -sum‚ v.a. and
n. turn away or aside.

avidum -a, -um‚ adj. greedy.

avua, -1, m. (Ι) grandfather,
(2) ancestor.

axis, -is‚ m. axle3 axis of the
earth, pole; the heavens.

B

Bactra, -orum, n. pl. chief city
of Bactria, a province of the
Persian empire.

baculum, -i, n. stick.

Baianus, -a, -um, adj. belonging
to Baiae, at Baiae (a resort on
the coast of Campania).

balteus, -i, m. sword-belt.

barba, -ae, f. heard.

barbarus, -a, -um‚ adj. foreign3
subst. foreigner, barbarian.

beatus, -a, -um, adj. happy,
blessed.

bellator, -ὂτίε, m. warrior.

bellicosue, -a, -um, aay'. warlike.

belle, are, vat. make war.
bellua, -ae, f. beast.

bellum, -i, n. war.

bellus, -a, -um, adj. beautiful.

Benacum -i, m. now Lake Garda.

bene, adv. well.

beneficium, -ii, n. kindness.

benigne, adv. kindly.

benignitas, -atis, f. kindness.
benignus, -α, -um‚ an'. kind.

Berecyntius, -a, -um, adj. of Mt.
Berecyntus, in Phrygia, where
Cybele was worshipped.

bibo, -ere, -i‚ -itum, αα. drink.

biceps, -cipitie, adj. two-headed.

biduum, -i, n. space of two days.
bis, adv. twice.

blandus, -a, —um, αφ’. coaxing,
fascinating.

Boectii, -ifirum, m. pl. the
Boeotians.

Bela, -ae, f Bola‚ old Latin
town, situation unknown.

bona, -orum, n.pl. goods.

bonus, -a, -um, adj. good.

bracchium, -ii, n. arm.

brevis, -iS, -e, ad “. short.

Britannia, -ae, . Britain.

Brundusium, -ii, n. Brundisium,
mod. Brindisi.

bucina, -ae, f trumpet.

G

cadaver, -eris‚ n. corpse.

cade, -ere‚ cecidi, casum, ωε.
fall.

caduceus‚ -i, m. herald's staff.

caecuS, —a‚ -um‚ adj. blind.

caedes, -ie, s. slaughter, mas-
sacre.

caedo, -ere‚ cecidl, caenum,
αα. cut, kill.

caelicola, -ae, m. a dweller in
heaven, a god. [ing.

caelifer, -α, -um, adj. sky-bear·

caelum, -i, n. sky, atmosphere.

caerimonium, -i, n. ceremony.

caeruleus and caerulus, -a, -um‚
an. blue.

caespes, -itis, m. cut sod or
turf, turf.

calamitas, -atis, f disaster.

calamus, -i, m. reed.

Caledonia, -ae, f. Caledonia,
Scotland.

caleo, -ere, calui, μη. to be
warm or hot, to glow.

calidus, -a, -um, an. warm.

callidus, -a, -um, adj. shrewd,
cunning.

cale, -6nis, m. camp-follower.

Camillus, M. Furius, name of a
consul who recovered Rome
from the Gauls.

campus, -1, m. plain.

candidum -a, -um‚ adj. dazzling,
white, bright; favourable.

canis, -is, m. and f dog.

cano, —ere‚ cecini, cantum, aa.
smg.

canen, -onie, m. rule.

canorus, -a, -um, adj. sounding,
tuneful. [ing.

cantabundus, -a, -um, adj. sing-

